#summary Target platform development guide.
#labels Draft,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

This page intends to explain details to implement a target platform in XMDL. It is briefly explained how to introduce a new target platform, or change a currently defined platform.

== Platform Development ==

 * A platform is introduced using a the Plugin Extension Point explained below.
 * Templates are added for each type of file generated.
 * Tasks are defined for each template definition in the corresponding platform Task Factory
 * Init (initialization) structures are defined to initialize model elements before code generation.

You can find details about those steps below.

=== Plugin Extension Point ===

Each platform is defined as an Eclipse plugin. A platform plugin uses the "xmdl.gen.registry" extension point to register itself as a plugin. Thus, code generation can be performed for this plugin via the editors context menu.

*xmdl.gen.registry* extension point has the following configuration markup:
{{{
<!ELEMENT extension (platform+)>
<!ATTLIST extension
    point CDATA #IMPLIED
    id    CDATA #IMPLIED
    name  CDATA #IMPLIED>

 <!--
    id - Unique extension id 
    name - Name of extension
 --> 

<!ELEMENT platform EMPTY>
<!ATTLIST platform
    name    CDATA #REQUIRED
    version CDATA #REQUIRED
    class   CDATA #REQUIRED>


 <!--
    name - Name of the platform 
    version - Platform version 
    class - Implementation class name 
 -->
}}}
 
An [http://help.eclipse.org/help32/index.jsp?topic=/org.eclipse.pde.doc.user/guide/tools/editors/manifest_editor/extension_points.htm extension point] must be defined in the platform's plugin.xml file. You can use a simple text editor or the [http://help.eclipse.org/help32/topic/org.eclipse.pde.doc.user/guide/tools/editors/manifest_editor/editor.htm Plug-in manifest editor] to add a platform definition.

Here is a sample extension point definition:
{{{
    <extension
         id="xmdl.core"
         name="XMDL Core Platform"
         point="xmdl.gen.register">
      <platform
            class="chrome.xmdl.core.platform.XmdlCorePlatform"
            name="Cekirdek"
            version="0.5.0"/>
   </extension>
}}}  

{{{
TODO: Adding Templates
TODO: Defining Tasks
TODO: Init structure
}}}

 
 
 
 
 